# What is Ansible

Ansible is a Configuration Management Tool used to automate tasks across any sized infrastructure such as:
- system updates
- reboots
- back-ups

Main purpose of Ansible is server configuration but can be used in desktop configuration.

Ansible is open sourced by red hat.

Ansible requires a Control Machine (your PC or dedicated server). On the 'target' server, no configuration is needed only ssh access is required.

## Why Ansible?
It is a great tool for administrators and Devops engineers to manage and maintain server infrastructure.
When server failures occur, replicating servers manually is time consuming, non-productive and prone to mistakes.

### Ansible allows control of 3 key areas of your Operations environment.

#### I.T. Automation
    
- Instructions to automate the I.T. setup that you would typically do maually.

#### Configuration Management

-  Consistency of systems in the infrastructure is maintained.

#### Automate Deployment

- Scaling applications can be deployed automatically in a variety of environments.

*SPEED UP AND OPTIMIZE OPERATIONS EFFICIENCY*

## Pull Configuration vs Push Configuration

### Pull

- Nodes check the master server periodically and pull configurations from it.

### Push

- Main node pushes configuration data to the child nodes.

#### Ansible is a Push Type Configuration Managemnt Tool

The advantage is that you do not require a client to be installed on the nodes with push type configuration. There is no need to go onto each node and install ansible before using it.

# Ansible Architecture

## Local Machine
The main component is the local machine, this is where you create the configuration, where you have the power of control.

#### Module
Modules are collections of configuration code files otherwise known as 'Playbooks'.

#### Inventory
Inventory is a document that groups nodes under specific tags.

##### SSH Client
Connection to nodes from main is done via ssh.

## Nodes
Nodes are the systems to be configured, they are controlled by the local machine(main machine) via a set of configuration files known as 'The Playbook'.

# The Playbook
This is the core, it is a set of configuration instructions to manage the nodes.
Written in YAML.

Sample:

```
--- 
# These 3 dashes indicate the start of  script.

# The script is then distinctive of 2 'plays', play 1 and play 2.

-name: play 1

# In each play we define which 'node' we are targeting.

- hosts: webserver

# Within each node, specific tasks:

tasks:
 -name: install apache
  yum:
      name: apache
      state: present
 -name: start apache
  service:
      name: apache
      state: start

# Play 2
-name: play 2
-hosts: databaseserver
taskes:
 -name: install MySQL
  yum:
      name: MySQL
      state: present
```

# Inventory
This is where we maintain the structure of the network environment.

In the example above, we have a [webserver] node, and a [databaseserver] node.

Under each node we names pointing to specific machines in that environment.

```
[webserver]
web1.machine
web2.machine
web3.machine

[databaseserver]
db1.machine
```
The different machines, will have the instructions from the configuration yaml script executed on them. This makes it really easy to point to new services without the manual complexity.


# Working with Ansible

*Ansible is agentless, meaning you do not need to install it on the nodes, only the main machine. This is an example of push type configuration*

### Main Machine (local machine).

    - has ansible installed on it.
    - connects to different nodes on the network.
    - contains the configuration files(playbook+inventory).
    - secure ssh to nodes 
### Nodes

________________________________________

# Ansible Tower
Ansible is purely CLI, although Ansible Tower provides a GUI for interacting with ansible playbooks, inventories and pushes for the nodes.


[Hashicorp Tutorials Home](Clickon-Tutorials/Hashicorp Tutorials/)
[Home](https://clickon-tutorials.github.io/Clickon-Tutorials)
 {% seo %}
