# Terraform Tutorial
by [clickonrefresh](github.com/clickonrefresh)

_______________________________________________

# What is Terraform?

### Terraform is an Infrastructure, Platform and Service Management Automation Tool or
*Infrastructure Provisioning Tool*

#### Terraform is used to automate and manage your infrastructure, platform and the services running on that platform.

Terraform is open source, and is declarative, Decalaritive in the sense that you define WHAT the end result should be and not all the minutia inbetween (Imperative).

#### Terradorm has 5 main providers in which it can operate:
- AWS
- Azure
- Google Cloud
- Oracle
- Terraform Cloud

*Signing up for a Terraform Cloud account gives you a free remote state storage, a stable run environment, version control (VCs) driven plans and applies, a collaborative web GUI and more.*

# What is an Infrastructure Provisioning Tool?
*A tool to automate your infrastructure using code*

Let's say you want to set up a web application on a cloud server, a group of virtual machines, containers, and a dockerized database on AWS.
You would prepare the infrastructure by:
- creating a private network
- set up ec2 server instances(virtual operating systems or container servers)
- install docker and other tools and dependencies
- security

Once everything is prepared, it then deployed.
So we can break this down into 2 steps:
1. Preparation
2. Deploy

*or*

1. Provisioning Infrastructure ( DevOps)
2. Deploying Applications ( Developer)

## Provisioning Infrastructure
- create virtual private network
- spin up servers
- create AWS users and permissions
- install docker
- etc

*This must all be done in order*

Like terraform, ansible is also a infrastructure as a code tool, but mainly terraform is used to provision the infrastructure, whereas ansible is used as a configuration tool to configure the infrastructure, deploy applications and manage software.
It is a common practise to use both tools hand in hand.

#### With Terraform we can automate both dev, staging and production environments
- create infrastructure
- manage changes to infrastructure
- test infrastructure
- scale infrastructure

### How does Terraform conect to the platform providers?
Terraform has 2 main components that make up its architecture:
1. Core
    - TF-Config (what to create or provision)
    - Terraform state (the current state of the setup)

The Core acts as the CRUD (datastructure) function, it looks at what needs to be created, updated and deleted. It figures out the current state vs desired state(config).

2. Providers
    - providers that offer the infrastructure as cloud (IaaS | PaaS | SaaS)
    - each provider comes with its own access to unique resources

So once the Core creates an execution plan based on the input from config file and state, it then uses Providers for specific technologies to execute the plan.

TF-Config example:
```
# Configure the AWS Provider
provider "aws" {
  version = "~> 2,0"
  region = "us-east-1"
}

# Create a VPC
resource "aws_vpc" "example" {
  cidr_block ="10.0.0.0/16"
}
```

```
# Configure a Kubernetes Provider
provider "kubernets" {
  config_context_auth_info = "ops"
  config_context_cluster   = "mycluster"
}

resource "kubernetes_namespace" "example" {
  metadata {
    name = "my-first-namespace"
  }
}
```

## Declarative Vs Imperative
#### What does declarative mean?

When creating a terraform config file, instead of defining the steps to create required service(VPC etc), you define the end state that you desire.

Initially there may not seem to be any difference.

### Declarative = WHAT

### Imperative = HOW

Let's say you want to update your servers, add a firewall config, and adjust user permissions. This would be done imperatively.

With Declarative, you state the WHAT as a desired end result. Instead of saying 'add 7 new servers', you would just say '7 servers'. The terraform config file takes care of the HOW to get to the WHAT which is user defined.

In declarative, you always know the current state based on the config file. Imperative would require delta manipulation.

# How does terraform work?
The commands used in terraform workflow:

#### refresh - terraform queries the infrastructure provider to get the current *state*.


#### plan - create an execution plan to adjust the infrastructure to the new state of the config file which you define.
 
#### apply - execute the plan

#### destroy - destroys resources/infrastructure

[Hashicorp Tutorials Home](Clickon-Tutorials/Hashicorp Tutorials/)

[Clickon Tutorials Home](https://clickon-tutorials.github.io/Clickon-Tutorials)

 {% seo %}
